.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

=========================
Content Rendering Schemes
=========================

.. container::

   This page belongs to the `Content Rendering -
   Team <https://wiki.typo3.org/Content_Rendering>`__ [deprecated wiki
   link] (category
   `ContentRenderingTeam <https://wiki.typo3.org/Category:ContentRenderingTeam>`__
   [deprecated wiki link])

The `ECT (Extension Coordination
Team) <https://wiki.typo3.org/Extension_coordination_team>`__
[deprecated wiki link] and the `CRG (Content Rendering
Group) <https://wiki.typo3.org/Content_Rendering>`__ [deprecated wiki
link] are doing a joint effort at the moment to get some new
out-of-the-box templates into TYPO3. For this purpose some standard id
and class schemes for the HTML output have to be drawn up. That's what's
done on this page.

What is this about?
===================

`glossary-definition <https://wiki.typo3.org/Category:Glossary-definition>`__
[deprecated wiki link]: Content Rendering Schemes (CRS) are a method for
standardisation of markup code and classes/IDs for TYPO3 markup.

Content Rendering Schemes should bring together several things :

-  Standard classes for content elements and extension markup
-  different markup code for different occasions (or different taste...)
-  adapting "outer world" ideas like microformats
-  idea of flexible content elements

The Basic Idea
==============

The basic idea of CRS is to have a mechanism for different standard
markup and classes for special content (like a data table, a results
browser, a calendar entry and so on) - based on existing 'standards'
like microformats (http://www.microformats.org/).

There can be different CRS for special purposes like - backwards
compatible - strict semantic - maximum stylable - ... - custom

Designers can set a variable to indicate wich CRS they will use.
Standard content elements should supply markup for all available CRS.
Extension authors can use example markup based on microformats and
standard classes to build their templates. Even better, they could call
an api to get this markup delivered from the core.

Because there is an opportunity to integrate custom schemes every markup
needed is possible.

Benefits
========

-  no (or less) ideologic discussions about the 'right' markup
-  very flexible for different tasks and future ideas about coding
-  semantic markup as a default
-  easy way to good template code for extension developers
-  higher markup quality on TYPO3 sites
-  skinnable markup (with correspondig CRS)

General thoughts / suggestions
==============================

-  general ids/classes should reflect position on page
-  menu ids/classes should try to reflect TS-Objects
-  content ids/classes should reflect content-type they are filled with
-  no underlines, only hyphens in composite class- / id-names
-  lowercase only

Layouts
=======

Within this section we try to provide std ids and classes for
multicolumn layouts. As we all know, providing std layouts is a risky
business that can often lead to heated discussions or outright flame
wars. Classing and id-ing a multicolumn layout is to some degree
something everybody does differently, according to one's own preferences
and habits. If you find our suggestions below inacceptable for some
reason please don't hesitate to tell s your suggestions on the
discussion page... All three layouts try to follow the same content
rendering scheme but vary in their closeness to pure semantic HTML.

The multicolumn schemes below had the following guidelines in mind:

-  **Page segmentation**

   -  header
   -  main
   -  footer

-  **Content segmentation**

   -  content-01 + column class
   -  content-02 + column class
   -  content-03 + column class

-  **Functional segmentation (optional)**

   -  css-signature in the <body> for advanced css-selectors
   -  "container" to enclose anything within the body
   -  "page" to wrap the whole page with header, main and footer
   -  "segment-wrap" if necessary to group one or more segments
   -  "floatholder" + "clearfix" for segments that make use of this css
      functions
   -  "clearer" for segment that clears with css

semantic 3 columns, floated
---------------------------

::

   <body > <!-- this get's generated by a bodyTagCObject -->

       <div > ... </div>

       <div >

             <div  > ... </div>

             <div  > ... </div>

             <div  > ... </div>
       </div>

       <div >

           <div > ... </div>

       </div>

   </body>

This lean markup is used in Matthew Levine's `"In Search of the Holy
Grail" <http://www.alistapart.com/articles/holygrail>`__ article at ALA.
In combination with his easy but very clever usage of CSS this could be
a basis for a simple, multicolumn FE output.

advanced 3 columns, floated
---------------------------

::

   <body > <!-- this get's generated by a bodyTagCObject -->

       <div >
           
           <div > ... </div>

           <div >

                   <div  > ... </div> <!-- floated left/right -->

                   <div > <!-- floated right/left -->

                       <div  > ... </div> <!-- floated left/right -->

                       <div  > ... </div> <!-- floated right/left -->

                   </div>

           </div>

           <div > ... </div>
       </div>
   </body>

The original idea comes from `Sebastian
Schmieg <http://www.kingcosmonaut.de/journal/3col-layout/>`__. You may
have a look at his tutorial to see how things get floated left/right.
Thx to Gregory Remmington for mentioning this layout.

versatile 3 columns, floated
----------------------------

This versatile scheme follows the
`YAML <http://www.highresolution.info/webdesign/yaml/artikel/xhtml/struktur.html>`__
approach (Yet Another Multicolumn Layout) and includes all possibilities
for main and possible subnavis and lots of content columns. It makes
clever usage of a <hr> to clear the columns globally - therefore all
three columns will always reach the footer.

::

   <body > <!-- this get's generated by a bodyTagCObject -->

   <div >

       <div  >

               <div > ... </div>

               <div > ... </div>

               <div > <!-- begin of three columns -->

                   <div  > <!-- left column -->

                       <div  > ... </div>

                   </div>

                   <div  > <!-- right column -->

                       <div  > ... </div>

                   </div>

                    <div  > <!-- middle (main) column -->

                       <div  > ... </div>
           
                       <hr  /> <!-- the trick: global CLEAR with (hidden) HR -->

                   </div>

               </div> <!-- end of three columns -->

               <div > ... </div>

       </div>
   </div>

   </body>

This layout is extensively explained at `Dirk
Jesse's <http://www.highresolution.info/webdesign/yaml/artikel/xhtml/struktur.html>`__
YAML homepage. You can download **YAML as a Typo3 Template** `for free
here. <http://yaml.t3net.de>`__

Menus
=====

The scheme for menus generated from TS tries to incorporate three ideas
with classes:

-  reflect TS-Objects
-  reflect item states
-  reflect sequence of items

Hierarchy is expressed by nesting level and therefore does'nt need any
classes. <a>'s should get no class. If needed, the user can set this
with ATagParams anyway. All menus are wrapped in a <div >. This might
look a bit superfluous at first but if we define each TSObject that can
be generated with TypoScript as a semantic "unit", <div>'s naming the
TSObjects begin to make sense. This way any TSObject can be inserted
anywhere in the template, keeps it's semantic meaning but at the same
time reflects TS usage.

TMENU
-----

::


   <div >

       <ul >

           <li >

               <a>linktext</a>

               <ul >

                   <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

                   <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

                   <li ><a>linktext</a></li>
               </ul> 

           </li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

       </ul>
   </div>

GMENU
-----

::

   <div >

       <ul >

           <li >

               <a>linktext</a>

               <ul > ... </ul> 

           </li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

       </ul>
   </div>

rootline
--------

::

   <div >

       <ul >

           <li ><a>linktext</a><span >divider</span></li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a><span >divider</span></li>

           <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

       </ul>
   </div>

Comments:
---------

This *is* a good start, but there are definite problems in the preceding
markup for TMENU / GMENU:

Superfluous classes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There is *never* any need in CSS to define the default state of an
element with a class or id--especially when the situation is essentially
a set of binary opposites. If the intention--as in the markup above--is
to style even and odd menu items differently, then consider that even
though *every* menu item must be even or odd, *both states* are given
classes. Surely it would be adequate to provide a class only for
*exceptions* to the default state? This is equally true of the normal ''
state of menu items. Presumably a menu item that is not either active or
current *must* be normal, and one that is even cannot be odd...

Why are two classes necessary? Using CSS this way just prolongs TYPO3's
bad habit of adding classes where none are needed (<p > ... </p> for
example...) If a general rule is needed for how many classes should
usually be applied to account for *x* states or conditions, use (*x* -
1).

The argument might be made that it's necessary to apply these classes to
the items in a menu so that they do not incorrectly inherit the styles
applied to list items in general, but this is not true. When needed,
descendant selectors can be used to target the list items *only in the
context of menus*.

Superfluous markup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The <div> surrounding the unordered list is entirely unneeded--I can't
see any need whatsoever for either the extra markup, or the extra class
it provides:

-  The <ul> will *always* be in some container anyway--in practice,
   likely a container with an id, allowing for the use of contextual
   styling with descendant selectors
-  The extra class ('') adds *no useful specificity* to the CSS (e.g. if
   .tmenu *always* occurs inside an element with the class 'hmenu',
   there is no difference between using '.hmenu .tmenu' in the CSS and
   using '.tmenu' The only apparent use for .hmenu is to style the
   container around the menu; if this is really necessary on a
   production site, then the developer can add it, but it shouldn't be
   part of the default rendering).
-  The unordered list is a block-level element just as the div is; it
   has no inherent styling disadvantages that must be overcome with a
   block-level wrapper.

Unwarranted Assumptions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It seems as though the markup here is making assumptions about how it
should be styled--and this is an all-too-common and frustrating practice
in the design of program / CMS output. *Default programmatic outputs
should be as generic as possible*!

Better markup?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The three initial goals can still be met using slightly simpler markup
(only TMENU shown):

-  reflect TS-Objects ( can be done without the 'hmenu' div )
-  reflect item states ( can be achieved without .no and .even classes )
-  reflect sequence of items ( can be achieved with .first and
   .last--though I'm skeptical that even *these* need to be part of any
   default set of renderings... )

::

      <!--
           1. Removed .even class
           2. Removed .no class
           3. Removed <div > | </div>
       -->

       <ul >

       <li >

           <a>linktext</a>

           <ul >

               <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

               <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

               <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

           </ul> 

       </li>

       <li><a>linktext</a></li>

       <li ><a>linktext</a></li>

   </ul>

Comments on 'better markup'
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

I cannot see any reason, why it should be necessary to reflect
TS-Objects. On a page, you have one or more menues, that might or might
not need different styling. You could either number them or find names
that reflect the nature of the menu's items, e.g.

-  menu-main
-  menu-sub
-  menu-utilities
-  menu-language
-  menu-breadcrumbs
-  menu-skiplinks

-Uschi

Text
====

Linear HTML text consists of h1 - h6, p, ul, ol, li, etc. Nothing to do
here. What about the header classes from css_styled_content?

Text & Images
=============

Already defined by cron_cssstyledimgtext. Maybe content-rendering group
would propose other classnames?

Tables
======

Forms
-----

Resultlists & Pagebrowsers
--------------------------
